## 成功的二分查找的 3 个部分

二分查找一般由三个主要部分组成：、

- 预处理 —— 如果集合未排序，则进行排序。
- 二分查找 —— 使用循环或递归在每次比较后将查找空间划分为两半。
- 后处理 —— 在剩余空间中确定可行的候选者。

## 二分查找模板 I

```java
int binarySearch(int[] nums, int target){
  if(nums == null || nums.length == 0)
    return -1;

  int left = 0, right = nums.length - 1;
  while(left <= right){
    // Prevent (left + right) overflow
    int mid = left + (right - left) / 2;
    if(nums[mid] == target){ return mid; }
    else if(nums[mid] < target) { left = mid + 1; }
    else { right = mid - 1; }
  }

  // End Condition: left > right
  return -1;
}
```

- Template #1 is the most basic and elementary form of Binary Search. It is the standard Binary Search Template that most high schools or universities use when they first teach students computer science. Template #1 is used to search for an element or condition which can be determined by *accessing a single index* in the array.

   

  **Key Attributes:**

  ------

  - Most basic and elementary form of Binary Search
  - Search Condition can be determined without comparing to the element's neighbors (or use specific elements around it)
  - No post-processing required because at each step, you are checking to see if the element has been found. If you reach the end, then you know the element is not found

   

  **Distinguishing Syntax:**

  ------

  - Initial Condition:` left = 0, right = length-1`

  - Termination: `left > right`

  - Searching Left: `right = mid-1`

  - Searching Right: `left = mid+1`

    

## 二分查找模板 II

```java
int binarySearch(int[] nums, int target){
  if(nums == null || nums.length == 0)
    return -1;

  int left = 0, right = nums.length;
  while(left < right){
    // Prevent (left + right) overflow
    int mid = left + (right - left) / 2;
    if(nums[mid] == target){ return mid; }
    else if(nums[mid] < target) { left = mid + 1; }
    else { right = mid; }
  }

  // Post-processing:
  // End Condition: left == right
  if(left != nums.length && nums[left] == target) return left;
  return -1;
}
```

Template #2 is an advanced form of Binary Search. It is used to search for an element or condition which requires *accessing the current index and its immediate right neighbor's index* in the array.

**Key Attributes:**

------

- An advanced way to implement Binary Search.
- Search Condition needs to access element's immediate right neighbor
- Use element's right neighbor to determine if condition is met and decide whether to go left or right
- Gurantees Search Space is at least 2 in size at each step
- Post-processing required. Loop/Recursion ends when you have 1 element left. Need to assess if the remaining element meets the condition.

 

**Distinguishing Syntax:**

------

- Initial Condition: `left = 0, right = length`
- Termination: `left == right`
- Searching Left: `right = mid`
- Searching Right: `left = mid+1`

## 二分查找模板 III

```java
int binarySearch(int[] nums, int target) {
    if (nums == null || nums.length == 0)
        return -1;

    int left = 0, right = nums.length - 1;
    while (left + 1 < right){
        // Prevent (left + right) overflow
        int mid = left + (right - left) / 2;
        if (nums[mid] == target) {
            return mid;
        } else if (nums[mid] < target) {
            left = mid;
        } else {
            right = mid;
        }
    }

    // Post-processing:
    // End Condition: left + 1 == right
    if(nums[left] == target) return left;
    if(nums[right] == target) return right;
    return -1;
}
```

Template #3 is another unique form of Binary Search. It is used to search for an element or condition which requires *accessing the current index and its immediate left and right neighbor's index* in the array.

 

**Key Attributes:**

------

- An alternative way to implement Binary Search
- Search Condition needs to access element's immediate left and right neighbors
- Use element's neighbors to determine if condition is met and decide whether to go left or right
- Gurantees Search Space is at least 3 in size at each step
- Post-processing required. Loop/Recursion ends when you have 2 elements left. Need to assess if the remaining elements meet the condition.

 

**Distinguishing Syntax:**

------

- Initial Condition:` left = 0, right = length-1`
- Termination: `left + 1 == right`
- Searching Left: `right = mid`
- Searching Right: `left = mid`
